We also need to cover the fact that browser does respect top bottom margin and padding for block elements
but does not respect it for inline elements.
And in order to hit this home we'll make a simple mobile number in the process.
We're also gonna cover less style type property and the selectors in CSI.
Let's start with an easy one.
The block level elements or the block element.
So for this I'm just going to get rid of everything that we have right now in a C assess.
I'm gonna head over to the next page the email.
Later on we're gonna change it.
We're going to add obviously some different elements here but for now I just want to show that if I
have let's say div 95 I'm gonna go here and see Asus.
We already covered this.
That if I'm going to add the background and say background on blue collar or white and if I'm going
to add let's do the easy one padding all around is going to be 20 pixels and margin all around is also
gonna be 20 pixels.
Now what's going to happen.
Well margin is going to be respected as well as the padding is gonna be in respect.
Now it's gonna make a little bit more sense once we're gonna work with the inline ones because you'll
see what happens with these elements and why they differ.
Now in this case maybe we can get rid of dave AGAIN.
ALL GONNA SAVE THE C assess.
We all gonna delete it in nature CML and let's create our neighbor.
Now no we're gonna use these on our list then we know that within the on our list we have a list element
and within the list element let's place a link.
Now for the link we're gonna place hash tags since this link is not going to go anywhere.
And then I just gonna write home.
So this is gonna be our first link.
Now let me maybe make three more.
And I was gonna change the values here so first and foremost I'm gonna select few of them I'm gonna
delete them all of them at the same time.
Then we're gonna add I don't know.
This is gonna be about us page.
And we're also gonna have the link to.
I don't know products page and last but not least we have the link to contact us page so for pages so
far so good.
Once the HMO has been set up we're gonna head over back to Stiles is this and we're gonna do our styling
now.
First we need to understand that for now we're having these margins here that are coming by default
from the browser.
So we'd like to get rid of them.
And remember we have an option of changing or selecting sorry all the elements.
And now we already have covered these two properties where I'm just gonna add the margin.
So margin right away by default at the moment is gonna be zero for all of them as well as we're gonna
get rid of the padding and then there's gonna be properties that we're gonna cover in a few videos which
is gonna be box sizing and we're gonna write back sizing and in this case we're going to write motorbikes
again.
I'm not going to cover this right now we're gonna cover it in a separate video because it's gonna make
a little bit more sense so far so good.
So we have right now the margin is zero.
The padding is zero as well as the box sizing.
So now we're having actually a far different view right now.
So we got from the we got away from all the default styles.
Okay.
What's next.
Well let's maybe add some fun family.
We know that we can add it for a whole body it was great fun family is gonna be let's go with Madonna
and we already know that this is gonna give us the fun snack and the last one is gonna be Eric sans
serif and obviously we see right away that the fans have been successfully changed now since I want
to show you the property of list style type.
Let me just comment this out for now.
No you don't have to do this on your end.
I'm just gonna do it all here just so you can see what this property is doing because otherwise it's
gonna be like well I'm sure that he's doing it correctly because nothing is changing also in the CSF
we can select the children now in our case what's happening.
So we have on our list correct then we have a list item which is the child of the on our list and there
is actually four children and then each and every list item has the child of the link.
So how we can select them.
Well we have an option here of going on our list.
So we're selecting on our list and then we're saying all the list items that are children off on our
list we would like to select them now for them we would like to select the property of list style list
style because this is obviously a list and then we have list style type.
Now we have many options here again we have our mania in circle whatever disk maybe we can check it
out this code works and yeah it doesn't really change anything let me see another one square me square
is gonna be different now you can see that there is gonna be square.
Let me try one more last one that I want to spend the whole day on them we have up a room one we have
alpha let's try this maybe f or Roman.
So now I have Roman numerals but mostly what you're always gonna do with the list you're gonna write
some like this you're gonna say I don't want these dots I just want them clear because you will use
these lists for your navigation.
So in this case you're gonna be setting this up and you're gonna say a list out of none.
So once we have successfully added this property list style type with a value none now we can head over
or I can head over I don't know.
Did you uncommon this or not.
And now I'm going to uncommon this again.
And now we can place it again without any default margins pairings as well as set the box sizing to
the bar box.
And now let's work with our links and again we can do the same thing.
We have the on our list correct.
Then within our list we have what.
Well we have these links.
Now I can do this directly I can just say all the links that are gonna be within the one on our list
or we can be more precise I can say here that if there is going to be let's say for example some other
link elements directly here as the children maybe it would be a little bit more precise to use this
ally in our case.
This is not going to make any difference.
It will only make a difference if you're going to have some link elements without these list items here.
That would be the case where if you want to select only those ones you'd like to use this ally.
But in our case either of them would work.
We can either do you well lie and then the link or you can just say well so on our list and then we're
looking for the link please understand what we're going to do with the links won't let us decide.
We know already that we have the tax declaration.
So let me get rid of the tax declaration and I was gonna say none so far so good.
Then also we know the property tax transform and for the tax transform value we're gonna use capitalized.
So now while our tax is going to be capitalized also let's add some letter spacing let's say for the
spacing we're going to have two pixels so far so good.
And we have two pixels.
Also maybe let's add some background.
Let's say that the background is gonna be hashtag 2 2 2.
So the background is going to be black and the color is gonna be let's say are orange f 1 5 0 2 4.
So so far so good.
Everything is working out.
However what if I would like to make sure of f 1 5 0 2 0 0 2 5.
Hopefully this is gonna be the orange one.
Now the key here is I would like to add some paring here top and bottom for my element as well as maybe
a little bit of margin in between now eventually once we set up everything we're not gonna have any
margin but just to prove we point let's say that I would want both.
I would want some padding tomorrow as well as I would want some margin to ban him.
Okay.
Let's try it out.
Let's say first of all pairing is gonna be all around and we're just gonna say patting is gonna be five
pixels.
Okay already something interesting is happening.
I'm having the padding but they are overlaying one on top of each other.
That's definitely not the look that I want.
No okay we're gonna keep on moving and I'm going to say margin is also gonna be top bottom and something
left and right.
However maybe since you don't believe me would be like Well okay you're just writing it incorrect.
Let me try a different way.
Let's say top bottom is gonna be 10 pixels as well as 10 pixels is gonna be left and right now what
happens.
The links are moving left and right and obviously in this case we just see the left side because there
is nothing here on the right hand side but they're not moving top and bottom so what's happening.
Well remember links were in line they were inline elements and what happens is that browser is not gonna
respect that as you start adding these patterns here as well as the margins for the top bottom.
So in our case in order to fix this we would need to make them as the block level element.
So how do we do that.
Well first of all let me get rid of this.
Let's say that I would like to get a margin padding.
We're just gonna really write this.
And in this case I'm going to say this play.
And now instead of in line which was the original one the default one I'm going to say display block.
So check this out.
So now my links are all the way from one side to another side of the screen.
And now if we're gonna start adding padding and let's say for us the padding is gonna be top bottom
is going to be let's say 10 pixels and then left and right is gonna be 10 pixels.
Now obviously again the padding is gonna be only shown on the left hand side because there's plenty
of space right here.
So I'm not going to be able to see what happens right now my links are actually respecting this padding
top bottom.
The browser is respecting because their block element.
Now the same thing if we would want to do this but again we are not technically wouldn't want to do
it in the mobile menu.
But I mean maybe who knows.
But you could add the margin so let's say I could do just the marginal around in this case and now these
10 pixels of margin of left and right are going to be respected not just the left and right just like
we had previously but again in this case probably.
This is not something that we're going to use.
But again just to show you the four block elements the browsers will going to respect the top bottom
beheading and margin.
However for the inline elements they are not going to respect the top and bottom margin and padding.